# ds_mod_1_excel
## Crowdfunding Project Data Analysis
In this project, I was tasked with analyzing a dataset of 1,000 crowdfunding campaigns to uncover any patterns or trends that could explain the success, failure, or cancellation of these projects. The dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC for educational purposes. This repository contains an analysis of crowdfunding project data using Excel. The dataset includes 1,000 sample crowdfunding projects from various platforms. The goal of this project is to uncover hidden trends and insights in crowdfunding campaigns by using Excel’s data analysis tools.

### Background
Crowdfunding platforms like Kickstarter and Indiegogo have seen significant growth and success since their inception. More and more individuals, including independent creators and celebrities, are leveraging these platforms to fund new products and ideas. However, not every project finds success. To receive funding, a project must meet or exceed its initial goal, which raises the question: What factors contribute to a campaign's success?

### Analysis
By using tools such as Excel, pivot tables, and ELT I was able to take the provided data and perform an analysis on crowdfunding data.  

#### Data Preprocessing and Conditional Formatting
Before beginning the analysis, I needed to do some data cleaning and formatting to make the analysis easier. I began by making sure there were no null or missing values. Then I began to preprocess the data by creating a new column to see the percent funded for the campaigns, then used conditional formatting to better visualize the successful or failed campaigns, and finally splitting the category and subcategory columns for a more robust analysis. I then did date conversions to convert the Unix timestamps to a normal, more readable date format.

#### Conducting the Analysis
After preprocessing I then began to analyze the category and subcategory columns using piviot tables to better visualize the successful, canceled, live, and failed campaigns. I made these tables so they could be filtered by country and parent category to provide more insights. Then I began to focus on the outcomes based on the launch dates. I created line graphs to better understand the relationship between when the campaign was launched and how successful it was.

### Report
The report attached contains conclusions about the crowdfunding campaigns and their successes and failures. The Bias and limitations of the provided data are also covered. Future work and additional areas for analysis round out the report.


